README.md, before:

# Cimini Lab resources 

## Work with us

[Lab website](https://cimini-lab.broadinstitute.org/)

[Office hours link](broad.io/imagingofficehours)

[CellProfiler annual support plan](https://cellprofiler.org/supportplan)

[COBA signup form](https://openbioimageanalysis.org/collaborate)

[Beth's Broad bio page with contact email](https://www.broadinstitute.org/bios/beth-cimini)

## Software we make

### CellProfiler

[downloads](https://cellprofiler.org/releases) 

[manual](https://broad.io/CellProfilerManual) 

[plugins documentation](https://plugins.cellprofiler.org/overview.html)

[tutorials](https://tutorials.cellprofiler.org/)

[GitHub](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler)  

[help forum](https://forum.image.sc/tag/cellprofiler) 

[pipeline suggester](https://www.boaq.org)

papers -  [CellProfiler-plugins [2023]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13223) / [CellProfiler 4 [2021]](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12859-021-04344-9) / [CellProfiler 3 [2018]](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.2005970)

### CellProfiler Analyst

[downloads](https://cellprofileranalyst.org/releases)  

[manual](https://cellprofileranalyst.org/manuals)  

[GitHub](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-Analyst)  

[help forum](https://forum.image.sc/tag/cellprofiler-analyst) 

papers - [CellProfiler Analyst 3 [2021]](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab634)

### Piximi

[Piximi.app](https://piximi.app/) 

[manual](https://documentation.piximi.app/)  

[GitHub](https://github.com/piximi/piximi) 

[help forum](https://forum.image.sc/tag/piximi) 

[preprint](https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.06.03.597232v2)

### Distributed-Something

[GitHub](https://distributedscience.github.io/Distributed-Something/introduction.html)

[paper](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01918-8)

Distributed tools - [Distributed-CellProfiler](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-CellProfiler) / [Distributed-Collate](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-Collate) / [Distributed-DeepProfiler](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-DeepProfiler) / [Distributed-Fiji](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-Fiji) / [Distributed-HelloWorld](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-HelloWorld) / [Distributed-OMEZarrCreator](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-OMEZarrCreator)

### Bilayers 

[demo app](https://github.com/COBA-NIH/docker_gradio_demo)

[GitHub](https://github.com/bilayer-containers/bilayers)

[Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/u/bilayer)

## Educational materials

### Educational papers we wrote

[The Twenty Questions of Bioimage Object Analysis[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01919-7) / [Tool implementation](https://www.boaq.org)

[A biologist’s guide to planning and performing quantitative bioimaging experiments[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3002167) 

[Creating and troubleshooting microscopy analysis workflows: Common challenges and common solutions[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13288)

[A postdoctoral training program in bioimage analysis[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.E24-05-0214)

### Stuff we make

[Lab website](https://cimini-lab.broadinstitute.org/)

[Lab paper pages](https://cimini-lab.broadinstitute.org/papers)

[Current lab preprints (from Beth's CV)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zZfoo2b-IbEDbpJ5pH6V0KlfdiY7A-clsAdRr-ouYX8/preview#heading=h.ea9i2felg8yq)

[Imaging Platform Blog](https://blog.cellprofiler.org)

[YouTube tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_id9sE-vu_i30Bd-skay7Q)

[Office hours link](broad.io/imagingofficehours)

[The Scientific Community Image Forum - Forum.image.sc](https://forum.image.sc/) / [Paper - Scientific Community Image Forum: A discussion forum for scientific image software[2019]](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000340)

[COBA website](https://openbioimageanalysis.org/)

Bioimaging Guide - [English](https://www.bioimagingguide.org/welcome.html) / [Spanish](https://es.bioimagingguide.org/) / [Portuguese](https://pt.bioimagingguide.org/) / [Czech](https://cs.bioimagingguide.org/) 

[The Image Based Profiling Handbook](https://cytomining.github.io/profiling-handbook/)

The Cell Painting Gallery (image repository) - [AWS RODA Website](https://registry.opendata.aws/cellpainting-gallery/) / [Explore on Quilt](https://open.quiltdata.com/b/cellpainting-gallery) / [Paper - Cell Painting Gallery: an open resource for image-based profiling[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-024-02399-z)

### Stuff we are major (but far from sole) contributors to

Global Bioimage Analysts' Society (GloBIAS) Global Registries - [For bioimage analysts](https://www.globias.org/resources/bioimage-analyst-db) / [For bioimage analysis trainers](https://www.globias.org/resources/bia-trainers-db)

Virtual I2K Meeting - [2023 edition](https://2023.i2kconference.org/workshops) / [2024 edition](https://www.i2kconference.org/virtual)

### Stuff we contributed to (but others led)

[Online guide for checklists for imaging and image analysis](https://quarep-limi.github.io/WG12_checklists_for_image_publishing/intro.html)  / [Paper -  Community-developed checklists for publishing images and image analysis [2023]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01987-9)

[Metrics Reloaded online metric chooser](https://metrics-reloaded.dkfz.de/) / [Paper 1 - Metrics reloaded: recommendations for image analysis validation[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-02151-z) / [Paper 2 - Understanding metric-related pitfalls in image analysis validation[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-02150-0)

[Microtutor imaging education platform](https://microtutor.globalbioimaging.org/)

## Papers you might find useful

### Protocols

[ImageJ and CellProfiler: Complements in Open-Source Bioimage Analysis[2020]](https://doi.org/10.1002/cpz1.89)

[Interpreting image-based profiles using Morpheus and single-cell visualization[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1002/cpz1.713)

[Optimizing the Cell Painting assay for image-based profiling[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41596-023-00840-9)

### Reviews

[Open-source deep-learning software for bioimage segmentation[2021]](https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.E20-10-0660)

[Defining the boundaries: challenges and advances in identifying cells in microscopy images[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.copbio.2023.103055)

### Community Surveys

[2020 BioImage Analysis Survey: Community experiences and needs for the future[2021]](https://doi.org/10.1017/S2633903X21000039)

[Bridging Imaging Users to Imaging Analysis - A community survey[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13229)

[Current active 2024 survey](https://broad.io/imagingsurvey)

### Opinions/Perspectives

[Moving beyond the desktop: Prospects for Practical Bioimage Analysis via the Web[2023]](https://doi.org/10.3389/fbinf.2023.1233748)

[Building momentum through networks: Bioimaging across the Americas[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13318)

[The Crucial Role of BioImage Analysts in Scientific Research and Publication[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1242/jcs.262322)

[A Call for FAIR and Open-Access Training Materials to advance Bioimage Analysis (preprint)[2024]](https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/2zgmc)

[Harmonizing the Generation and Pre-publication Stewardship of FAIR Image Data (preprint)[2024]](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.13022)

[Enabling Global Image Data Sharing in the Life Sciences (preprint)[2024]](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.13023)

Commit message:

Add header, GSoC, Bilayers doc page

README.md, after:

# Cimini Lab resources 

Below are ways to collaborate our lab, pointers to our software and its documentation, and the educational resources and papers we have been a part of. We hope these resources help you out!

This page last updated 2025-Feb-06

## Work with us

[Lab website](https://cimini-lab.broadinstitute.org/)

[Office hours link](https://broad.io/imagingofficehours)

[CellProfiler annual support plan](https://cellprofiler.org/supportplan)

[COBA signup form](https://openbioimageanalysis.org/collaborate)

[Beth's Broad bio page with contact email](https://www.broadinstitute.org/bios/beth-cimini)

[Google Summer of Code 2025 Project ideas](https://ciminilab.github.io/GoogleSummerOfCode/)

## Software we make

### CellProfiler

[downloads](https://cellprofiler.org/releases) 

[manual](https://broad.io/CellProfilerManual) 

[plugins documentation](https://plugins.cellprofiler.org/overview.html)

[tutorials](https://tutorials.cellprofiler.org/)

[GitHub](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler)  

[help forum](https://forum.image.sc/tag/cellprofiler) 

[pipeline suggester](https://www.boaq.org)

papers -  [CellProfiler-plugins [2023]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13223) / [CellProfiler 4 [2021]](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12859-021-04344-9) / [CellProfiler 3 [2018]](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.2005970)

### CellProfiler Analyst

[downloads](https://cellprofileranalyst.org/releases)  

[manual](https://cellprofileranalyst.org/manuals)  

[GitHub](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-Analyst)  

[help forum](https://forum.image.sc/tag/cellprofiler-analyst) 

papers - [CellProfiler Analyst 3 [2021]](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab634)

### Piximi

[Piximi.app](https://piximi.app/) 

[manual](https://documentation.piximi.app/)  

[GitHub](https://github.com/piximi/piximi) 

[help forum](https://forum.image.sc/tag/piximi) 

[preprint](https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.06.03.597232v2)

### Distributed-Something

[GitHub](https://distributedscience.github.io/Distributed-Something/introduction.html)

[paper](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01918-8)

Distributed tools - [Distributed-CellProfiler](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-CellProfiler) / [Distributed-Collate](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-Collate) / [Distributed-DeepProfiler](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-DeepProfiler) / [Distributed-Fiji](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-Fiji) / [Distributed-HelloWorld](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-HelloWorld) / [Distributed-OMEZarrCreator](https://github.com/DistributedScience/Distributed-OMEZarrCreator)

### Bilayers 

[demo app](https://github.com/COBA-NIH/docker_gradio_demo)

[documentation](https://bilayers.org/)

[GitHub](https://github.com/bilayer-containers/bilayers)

[Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/u/bilayer)

## Educational materials

### Educational papers we wrote

[The Twenty Questions of Bioimage Object Analysis[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01919-7) / [Tool implementation](https://www.boaq.org)

[A biologist’s guide to planning and performing quantitative bioimaging experiments[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3002167) 

[Creating and troubleshooting microscopy analysis workflows: Common challenges and common solutions[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13288)

[A postdoctoral training program in bioimage analysis[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.E24-05-0214)

### Stuff we make

[Lab website](https://cimini-lab.broadinstitute.org/)

[Lab paper page](https://cimini-lab.broadinstitute.org/papers)

[Current lab preprints (from Beth's CV)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zZfoo2b-IbEDbpJ5pH6V0KlfdiY7A-clsAdRr-ouYX8/preview#heading=h.ea9i2felg8yq)

[Imaging Platform Blog](https://blog.cellprofiler.org)

[YouTube tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_id9sE-vu_i30Bd-skay7Q)

[Office hours link](https://broad.io/imagingofficehours)

[The Scientific Community Image Forum - Forum.image.sc](https://forum.image.sc/) / [Paper - Scientific Community Image Forum: A discussion forum for scientific image software[2019]](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000340)

[COBA website](https://openbioimageanalysis.org/)

Bioimaging Guide - [English](https://www.bioimagingguide.org/welcome.html) / [Spanish](https://es.bioimagingguide.org/) / [Portuguese](https://pt.bioimagingguide.org/) / [Czech](https://cs.bioimagingguide.org/) 

[The Image Based Profiling Handbook](https://cytomining.github.io/profiling-handbook/)

The Cell Painting Gallery (image repository) - [AWS RODA Website](https://registry.opendata.aws/cellpainting-gallery/) / [Explore on Quilt](https://open.quiltdata.com/b/cellpainting-gallery) / [Paper - Cell Painting Gallery: an open resource for image-based profiling[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-024-02399-z)

### Stuff we are major (but far from sole) contributors to

Global Bioimage Analysts' Society (GloBIAS) Global Registries - [For bioimage analysts](https://www.globias.org/resources/bioimage-analyst-db) / [For bioimage analysis trainers](https://www.globias.org/resources/bia-trainers-db)

Virtual I2K Meeting - [2023 edition](https://2023.i2kconference.org/workshops) / [2024 edition](https://www.i2kconference.org/virtual)

### Stuff we contributed to (but others led)

[Online guide for checklists for imaging and image analysis](https://quarep-limi.github.io/WG12_checklists_for_image_publishing/intro.html)  / [Paper -  Community-developed checklists for publishing images and image analysis [2023]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-01987-9)

[Metrics Reloaded online metric chooser](https://metrics-reloaded.dkfz.de/) / [Paper 1 - Metrics reloaded: recommendations for image analysis validation[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-02151-z) / [Paper 2 - Understanding metric-related pitfalls in image analysis validation[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-023-02150-0)

[Microtutor imaging education platform](https://microtutor.globalbioimaging.org/)

## Papers you might find useful

### Protocols

[ImageJ and CellProfiler: Complements in Open-Source Bioimage Analysis[2020]](https://doi.org/10.1002/cpz1.89)

[Interpreting image-based profiles using Morpheus and single-cell visualization[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1002/cpz1.713)

[Optimizing the Cell Painting assay for image-based profiling[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41596-023-00840-9)

### Reviews

[Open-source deep-learning software for bioimage segmentation[2021]](https://doi.org/10.1091/mbc.E20-10-0660)

[Defining the boundaries: challenges and advances in identifying cells in microscopy images[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.copbio.2023.103055)

### Community Surveys

[2020 BioImage Analysis Survey: Community experiences and needs for the future[2021]](https://doi.org/10.1017/S2633903X21000039)

[Bridging Imaging Users to Imaging Analysis - A community survey[2023]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13229)

[Current active 2024 survey](https://broad.io/imagingsurvey)

### Opinions/Perspectives

[Moving beyond the desktop: Prospects for Practical Bioimage Analysis via the Web[2023]](https://doi.org/10.3389/fbinf.2023.1233748)

[Building momentum through networks: Bioimaging across the Americas[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1111/jmi.13318)

[The Crucial Role of BioImage Analysts in Scientific Research and Publication[2024]](https://doi.org/10.1242/jcs.262322)

[A Call for FAIR and Open-Access Training Materials to advance Bioimage Analysis (preprint)[2024]](https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/2zgmc)

[Harmonizing the Generation and Pre-publication Stewardship of FAIR Image Data (preprint)[2024]](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.13022)

[Enabling Global Image Data Sharing in the Life Sciences (preprint)[2024]](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2401.13023)
